Let's talk about how
you administrate Redis.
They do also have a primary secondary
kind of configuration sort of thing.
Their primary terms know that they
prefer a leader and follower.
So you have the leader server which
is one that you write to the primary.
And they also have a follower server
which is kind of the secondary so
the one that are being
replicated to from the leader.
You also see as the master and follower
that's not the terms that I choose to use.
But you will find master and slave in some
of their older documentation, but yeah,
they have since moved on to leader and
follower.
The leader will accept all of the rights,
the followers are expected to
be exact replicas of the leader.
The followers are also
sometimes called replicas.
If the leader and
the followers lose track of each other,
the followers are smart enough to
actually suggest request the delta.
So the actual changes between when they
last saw the leader and now, right?
They'll actually just
request that delta and
they're smart enough to kind of go through
and selectively apply those updates.
If it gets too out of sync or if they just
can't deal with it anymore it'll just
wipe itself and totally copy
a brand new copy of the leader.
So suffice to say it's actually pretty
sophisticated with its
replication strategy.
You can kind of mess with the consistency,
right?
The C part of asset to say like
acknowledge my right as soon as
the follower sees it, or
you can also go as far as saying,
don't acknowledge my right until all
of the followers have written it to
disk has a very slow way to do it but
it's possible to do it that way.
There's also a way to command, we didn't
talk about that one too much or at all.
But there's actually one that's
called WAIT, and you can say I need
this to be into at least one
replica before I feel comfortable.
So imagine I don't know again, you're
doing like banking stuff you might feel
comfortable as like I need for this to
be at least written to one replica.
So that's what WAIT will do.
It's for your highly important stuff.
Let's talk about Redis Cluster for
a second.
Redis Clusters is shanding but for
Redis it'll take your keys and shand
them out amongst the different pockets
of replicated leaders and followers.
This is how you're gonna
start handling terabytes or
at least gigabytes of key value stuff.
It will make your Redis
deployment less consistent,
which is usually a trade off that
you have to be willing to make.
So it has a higher chance of dropping
rights on accident, which is not good.
But the trade off that you're making
here is that Redis can scale to be much,
much larger.
So you need to think about that.
That feature is called cluster,
Redis cluster.
And there's another cool
feature called Redis Sentinel.
So Redis Sentinel does
what's called self healing.
We haven't talked a lot
about self healing, but
it's a really hot topic in operations.
What that means is like let's
say you have one follower and
four leaders, sorry other way around.
You have one leader and four followers and
Redis suddenly detects that one of
your followers is dropping rights,
it's latencies spiking,
it's running out of disk space.
What you can do with Redis Sentinel is
like it can see that before it actually
starts becoming a problem.
So it's actually like a sentinel, right?
It's watching all the vitals of
all these different servers.
Before it becomes a problem, you can
rotate that server out of rotation,
put in a brand new follower, and
then you can kind of continue on
as if nothing had ever happened.
It can do this kind of self healing.
And so your operations persons or
you don't have to get paged it actually
just gets fixed before it
even becomes a problem.
That's called Sentinel.
It's self healing Redis.
It also has a bunch of charts and graphs
and metrics that let you know how much
they're being written to,
how much they're being read out of,
what queries are very old,
which ones never get run.
Bunch of stuff like that.
So Redis Sentinel, if you can be
running a lot of Redis is very helpful.
So a big key with this is with Sentinel,
you want these servers to live
independent of each other.
So usually that's gonna
be like cross region.
And what's cool about that, is if you
have some of your servers in US West,
some of them in US East, some of them
in I don't know where else regions are,
Europe, you can have them in,
[COUGH] various different other places.
The Sentinel can actually
see those across regions.
And if they can see that US West is going
down, it can move all of your servers
automatically to US East and really
compensate for that particular problem.
So yeah, it means you can survive
regional downtime, which is a big deal.